Donald Trump’s endless effort to destroy health care is his most spectacular scam, in a long and successful career as a con man.

His Justice Department has announced that it will seek to kill the entire Affordable Care Act in court, all its hundreds of provisions, with no alternative for the nearly 20 million people who are suddenly left uninsured.

Trump has no plan to protect these folks, many of whom voted for him. He never has. Even now, he says he is in "no very great rush" to come up with one.

Yet once again, he thinks he can just slap his big brassy name on this boondoggle and sell it, like anything else.

“Let me tell you exactly what my message is: The Republican Party will soon be known as the party of health care,” he said last week. “You watch.”

We did watch, already, as he made the same grand promise last year of “insurance for everybody,” regardless of their ability to pay, then presented zero plans to do this – while coming within a single vote of repealing the entire health law in Congress. Nearly 23 million would have lost insurance.

We watched as Republicans were forced to relinquish control of the House, largely because voters saw through this charade and didn’t want to lose their coverage.

And now, we are watching Trump tell the same old lie – that something better is, as always, in the works. Back in 2015, it was “something terrific.” Just days ago, it was “something really spectacular.” Nothing has changed.

It is highly unusual for the Justice Department to refuse to defend a federal law, as it is here, after a group of Republican governors attacked Obamacare in court. This is a vanity move on Trump’s part, to erase his predecessor’s legacy.

Even his own Vice President, Attorney General and Cabinet secretary in charge of health care reportedly opposed this behind the scenes, because they know for a fact that Trump has no other plan. It’s a political time bomb.

Think of what will happen if the court doesn’t stop him. Virtually all the 20 million who would lose their coverage are working people, many of whom voted for Trump, the self-professed champion of the working class.

About 11 million are on the government-run Obamacare exchanges. The federal subsidies Trump is seeking to eliminate cover $525 of a $612 monthly premium on the marketplace, on average. States could never make up the difference. Their insurance would become unaffordable.

Another 12 million were newly insured through the law’s expansion of Medicaid. This is the largest source of funding for drug treatment, by far. Kill Medicaid, and you kill treatment. Add this cruel twist: Among them are three million children, who became covered when their parents signed up for Medicaid and would also lose their health care.

Because New Jersey was one of the states that benefitted most from this health law, vastly expanding its number of insured, we’d be among the biggest losers. At least 600,000 people would be stripped of their coverage right away. More would lose it down the line.

Roughly 3.8 million in New Jersey have a pre-existing medical condition like cancer or diabetes. If they suddenly lost their jobs and employer coverage, many couldn’t afford another plan. It’s currently illegal for insurers to deny them coverage or hike their rates; that’s an Obamacare protection that Trump would eliminate.

New Jersey saw big savings thanks to this law, so dismantling it would rip a half-billion-dollar hole in our state budget. We’d lose another $4 billion in federal funds. It would ripple across our economy in job losses.

Trump promised that “everybody’s going to be taken care of” under his incredible plan, and “the government’s going to pay for it.” Some voters still believe him. But did Mexico pay for the wall?
