The gulf could hardly be wider between the Trump administration and Republicans on Capitol Hill when it comes to replacing Obamacare. Just look at the raft of contradictory statements from senior White House officials and top members of Congress over the past 72 hours.

Two of President Trump’s top officials — his counselor Kellyanne Conway and acting White House chief of staff Mick Mulvaney — took to the Sunday morning shows to insist there is a plan at the ready should the courts ultimately strike down the Affordable Care Act. The case, brought by conservative-led states, revived a furious debate this week when the administration said it now believes the entire law — not just its protections for people with preexisting conditions — should fall.

“There is a plan,” Conway said on “Fox News Sunday.” “We’ve been working on a plan for a long time.”

Mulvaney said, “we’ll try and fix it by ourselves,” saying on ABC’s “This Week” that Democrats probably wouldn’t help to “fix” the law should the courts strike it down.

Mulvaney also promised Americans with preexisting conditions will still be guaranteed coverage even without the ACA, which mandated such protections for the first time. Republicans are “trying to … pass a piece of legislation that meets the requirements of the United States Constitution,” he said on CNN’s “State of the Union.”

Yet Republicans in Congress — the ones who would need to ultimately negotiate and vote on a bill to repeal and replace the ACA — say none of these promised efforts are underway. Resurrecting a repeal-and-replace effort is just about the last thing they’re interested in doing these days.

—“No,” Senate Finance Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) bluntly told The Post's Seung Min Kim and Josh Dawsey when they asked whether the two Senate committees overseeing health-care policy are planning to draft an ACA replacement.

“Obamacare is something that’s not going to be replaced unless the courts would declare it unconstitutional,” Grassley told them. “You won’t know that for a long time.”

—Sen. Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.), chairman of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, indicated as much, saying he’s focused on legislation to reduce overall health-care costs.

—An official familiar with party strategy said top Senate Republican Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) doesn’t have plans to put together a working group to construct an ACA replacement.

—Sen. Rick Scott (R-Fla.), one of three senators Trump had named as working on an Obamacare replacement bill, appeared to toss the onus for a replacement bill back onto the White House.

“Look, I’m going to try to get something done,” Scott told my colleagues. “But I think it accelerates everything if the White House had a plan.”

—Even a senior White House official directly involved in the discussions said there was no specific proposal, my colleagues write.

— Sen. Susan Collins (R-Maine) -- who acknowledged last week that Republicans don't have a viable plan to replace the ACA that could pass this divided Congress -- is sending Attorney General William Barr a letter today chiding him for refusing to defend the law in court and saying the White House should instead propose changes to it or again seek its repeal.

"The Administration should not attempt to use the courts to bypass Congress," Collins wrote.

President Trump’s foray last week back into the world of Obamacare-repeal-and-replace is a terrain most Republicans clearly don’t want to revisit. While they effectively leveraged that message in several elections after Democrats’ 2010 health-care law, Democrats managed to switch the script last year by hounding the GOP over appearing to oppose protections for patients with preexisting conditions.

The lawsuit before the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 5th Circuit, led by Texas and other Republican-led states, seeks to overturn the entire law because Congress erased its penalty for lacking health coverage. That penalty is the basis for which the Supreme Court upheld the ACA as constitutional back in 2012.

Even conservative legal scholars have criticized the administration for refusing to defend the ACA, and most Republicans view it as a political loser in 2020 by opening them up to more political attacks around protecting people with preexisting conditions.

It’s hard to overstate the disconnect between Capitol Hill Republicans and the administration on this topic. It’s almost as if the White House has no recollection that just two years ago, when Republicans controlled both chambers of Congress, their fraught attempt to repeal and replace the ACA failed badly — and embarrassingly.

Insisting that an ACA overhaul is still on the table, Mulvaney said the White House will take a similar approach to taxes, by sending “principles” for health-care reform to Capitol Hill and ask Congress to write the actual legislation.

“We’re going to give people the choice they want, the affordability that they need and the quality that they deserve,” Mulvaney said on CNN.

One thing’s for sure: We’ve heard that promise from Republicans many times before. And it's less likely than ever before they'll follow through on it.
